---
title: cairo 1.5.16 snapshot available
layout: news
date: 2008-04-01
---

	From: Carl Worth <cworth@cworth.org>
	Date: Tue, 01 Apr 2008 16:25:32 -0700
	To: cairo-announce@cairographics.org
	Cc: gnome-announce-list@gnome.org
	Subject: cairo snapshot 1.5.16 now available

	A new cairo snapshot 1.5.16 is now available from:

	        http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.5.16.tar.gz

	    which can be verified with:

	        http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.5.16.tar.gz.sha1
	        46e08f540f0abf18dea4b889c82455c556c50f2e  cairo-1.5.16.tar.gz

	        http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.5.16.tar.gz.sha1.asc
	        (signed by Carl Worth)

	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:

	        git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo

	    will include a signed 1.5.16 tag which points to a commit named:
	        5366c8f483dc7bd40b5d0a184c9b16826007c032

	    which can be verified with:
	        git verify-tag 1.5.16

	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
	        git checkout -b build 1.5.16

	This is the eighth snapshot in cairo's unstable 1.5 series. It comes
	less than two weeks after the 1.5.14 snapshot and it really is a
	legitimate snapshot, (in spite of sharing this date with that of many
	bogus announcements). The major change in this snapshot is that the
	cairo-quartz backend is now officially "supported", including new API
	to construct a font face from a CGFontRef . Also several bug fixes
	have been fixed in many backends. See below for details.

	This is definitely a "release candidate" snapshot for cairo 1.6.0. At
	this point all significant items from the cairo 1.6.0 roadmap are
	already in this snapshot. See:

		http://cairographics.org/roadmap

	At this point, the only change we are planning to make before cairo
	1.6 is to change the setting of the infamous buggy_repeat flag,
	(depending on what we learn from characterizing which X server/driver
	versions exhibit bugs). We don't anticipate any other changes unless
	people identify bugs. So please let us know if you find anything. We
	plan to release cairo 1.6 by the end of this week.

	Have fun with cairo!

	-Carl

	What's new in cairo 1.5.16 compared to cairo 1.5.14
	===================================================
	general
	-------
	Cairo now depends on pixman 0.10.0 which was recently released. The
	latest pixman release can always be found alongside cairo releases at:

	   http://cairographics.org/releases

	Increase the precision of color stops for gradients. This fixes a
	regression in gradient rendering that had been present since the
	1.5.12 snapshot.

	paginated (all of ps, pdf, svg, and win32-printing)
	---------------------------------------------------
	Fix assertion failure when some drawing elements are outside the page
	boundaries, (this bug was noticed when using Inkscape to print a
	drawing with landscape orientation to a portrait-oriented piece of
	paper).

	cairo-ps
	--------
	Fix of bug causing incorrect glyph positioning.

	Fix handling of CAIRO_OPERATOR_SOURCE.

	cairo-pdf
	---------
	More reduction of unnecessary digits of precision in PDF output.

	Fix handling of CAIRO_OPERATOR_SOURCE.

	cairo-svg
	---------
	Fix bug in usage of libpng that was preventing cairo_mask from working
	with the svg backend.

	Fix transformation of source pattern for cairo_stroke().

	cairo-win32-printing
	--------------------
	Fix fallback resolution, (thanks again to inkscape users/developers
	for helping us find this one).

	cairo-quartz
	------------
	Mark the cairo-quartz backend as "supported" rather than
	"experimental". This means the following:

	    * The backend will now be built by default (if possible).

	    * We are committing that the backend-specific API (as published in
	      cairo-quartz.h) are stable and will be supported in all future
	      cairo 1.x releases.

	    * We are committing that the output quality of this backend
	      compares favorably with other cairo backends, (and that quality
	      is ensured by good results from the cairo test suite).

	    * We recommend that distributions build and distribute this
	      backend when possible.

	Note that the cairo_quartz_image API (in cairo-quartz-image.h) is
	still experimental, will not build by default, (pass
	--enable-quartz-image to configure to build it), and may see API
	changes before it is marked as "supported" in a future release.

	Put the CAIRO_FONT_TYPE_ATSUI name back into
	cairo-deprecated.h. Without this, the cairo 1.5.14 snapshot broke all
	builds for applications using the C++ cairomm bindings (and perhaps
	others) which have the CAIRO_FONT_TYPE_ATSUI name in their header
	files. This breakage happened even for applications not using
	cairo-quartz at all.

	    Note: Even though the CAIRO_FONT_TYPE_ATSUI name is provided to
	    avoid this build breakage, we still recommend that bindings and
	    applications move to the new, and more accurate,
	    CAIRO_FONT_TYPE_QUARTZ name.

	Replace the implementation of cairo-quartz-font to use CGFont instead
	of ATSUI. The CGFont API is a better fit than ATSUI, and this new
	implementation is also more correct than the old one as well.

	This also adds the following new API call:

		cairo_public cairo_font_face_t *
		cairo_quartz_font_face_create_for_cgfont (CGFontRef font);

	The previous cairo_quartz_font_face_create_for_atsu_font_id function
	continues to exist and is part of the supported API going
	forward. (However, the old name of that same function, which was
	cairo_atsui_font_face_create_for_atsu_font_id is officially
	deprecated. Any source code using the old name should be updated to
	use the new name.)

	Fix transformation of source pattern for cairo_stroke().

	cairo-win32
	-----------
	Avoid crash in create_similar is cairo_win32_surface_create fails.
