---
title: cairo 1.6.2 release available
date: 2008-04-11
---

	From: Carl Worth <cworth@cworth.org>
	Date: Fri, 11 Apr 2008 10:24:54 -0700
	To: cairo-announce@cairographics.org
	Cc: gnome-announce-list@gnome.org
	Subject: cairo release 1.6.2 now available

	The cairo community is pleased (but somewhat sheepish) to announce the
	1.6.2 release of the cairo graphics library. This is an update to
	yesterday's 1.6.0 release with an important fix to prevent cairo's
	PostScript output from crashing some printers. This release also
	includes a locking fix for cairo's xlib backend to improve thread
	safety. There are no changes beyond these two fixes. See below for
	more details.

	Have fun with cairo!

	-Carl

	Release 1.6.2 (2008-04-11 Carl Worth <cworth@cworth.org>)
	=========================================================
	A new cairo release 1.6.2 is now available from:

	        http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.6.2.tar.gz

	    which can be verified with:

	        http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.6.2.tar.gz.sha1
	        5b69fcab20c442df132515c1bfe10b9525f66de0  cairo-1.6.2.tar.gz

	        http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.6.2.tar.gz.sha1.asc
	        (signed by Carl Worth)

	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:

	        git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo

	    will include a signed 1.6.2 tag which points to a commit named:
	        5bc6fd71398f8aa902fcffe2da5d1e70fb94aa8a

	    which can be verified with:
	        git verify-tag 1.6.2

	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
	        git checkout -b build 1.6.2

	Summary of changed from cairo 1.6.0 to 1.6.2
	============================================

	Fix for PostScript printer crash
	--------------------------------
	Adrian Johnson discovered that cairo 1.6.0 was being a bit hard on
	PostScript printers, by changing the font matrix very frequently. This
	causes some PostScript interpreters to allocate new font objects every
	few glyphs, eventually exhausting available resources. The fix
	involves leaving translational components of the font matrix as zero,
	so that the PostScript interpreter sees an identical font matrix
	repeatedly, and can more easily share internal font object resources.

	This fix has been tested to resolve the bugs posted here, (for both
	Xerox and Dell printers):

		Printing some PDFs from evince is crashing our Xerox printer
		http://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=15348

		Cairo-generated postscript blocks Dell 5100cn
		http://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=15445

	Add missing locking in cairo-xlib
	---------------------------------
	Chris Wilson noticed that cairo 1.6.0 was manipulating an internal
	cache of GC object within cairo's Xlib backend without proper
	locking. The missing locking could cause failures for multi-threaded
	applications. He fixed this in 1.6.2 by adding the missing locks.

	Log of all commits from cairo 1.6.0 to 1.6.2
	============================================
	Adrian Johnson (1):
	      PS: Fix inefficient implementation of Tm/Td operators that was
	      crashing printers

	Carl Worth (3):
	      Increment version to 1.6.1 after 1.6.0 release
	      NEWS: Add notes for 1.6.2 release
	      Increment version to 1.6.2

	Chris Wilson (1):
	      [xlib] Add locking around GC cache.
