---
title: cairo 1.15.6 release available
layout: news
date: 2017-06-13
---

	Subject: cairo snapshot 1.15.6 now available
	
	A new cairo snapshot 1.15.6 is now available from:
	
	  http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.15.6.tar.xz
	
	    which can be verified with:
	
	    http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.15.6.tar.xz.sha1
	    1a1724ecd012efeeaa43adee7094223227b61d90  cairo-1.15.6.tar.xz
	
	    http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.15.6.tar.xz.sha1.asc
	    (signed by Bryce Harrington)
	
	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:
	
	  git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo
	
	    will include a signed 1.15.6 tag which points to a commit named:
	    c31721ab27c65941dd9e0c29662d7ebb5caa2a01
	
	    which can be verified with:
	    git verify-tag 1.15.6
	
	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
	    git checkout -b build 1.15.6
	
	This new snapshot incorporates changes over the past half-year since the
	1.15.4 snapshot, including all the fixes from the 1.14 release series.
	
	The PDF code continues to be enhanced, and we're restored MacOSX 10.4
	support.  Font-related fixes and improved error handling for X round out
	the release.
	
	For a complete log of changes, please see
	
	    http://cairographics.org/releases/ChangeLog.cairo-1.15.6
	
	
	Features and Enhancements
	-------------------------
	* Detect if variable fonts have	synthesized bold/italic	or non-default
	  variants, and	     use a fallback font where needed.
	
	* Restore MacOSX 10.4 support.	    Cairo had dropped 10.4 support when
	  moving to the CoreText API.  Now we automatically detect which API to
	  use via dynamic linking, so can resume supporting this older version
	  of MacOSX.
	
	
	API Changes
	-----------
	None
	
	Dependency Changes
	------------------
	None
	
	Performance Optimizations
	-------------------------
	None
	
	Bug Fixes
	---------
	* Fix error reporting in the xcb backend if fallback fails.  Instead of
	  returning NULL when the X11 server can't do some operation, return a
	  surface in an error state.
	
	* Call XSync in the xlib backend before setting the error handler to
	  ignore errors for certain requests, to make sure all pending errors
	  are handled first.
	
	* Fix text-glyph-range for quartz-font.	 Use 0xFFFF instead of 0 for
	  invalid index	       tracking.
	
	* Fix handling of Supplementary Multilingual Plane (SMP) Unicode
	  characters in quartz-font.
	
	* Fix various issues in the drm backend	including updating API usage and
	  general code cleanup.
	
	* Clarify documentation	regarding device scale inheritance and the units
	  used in cairo_surface_create_similar_image.
	  Bug #99094.
	
	
	What is cairo
	-------------
	Cairo is a 2D graphics library with support for multiple output
	devices. Currently supported output targets include the X Window
	System (via both Xlib and XCB), quartz, win32, and image buffers,
	as well as PDF, PostScript, and SVG file output. Experimental backends
	include OpenGL, BeOS, OS/2, and DirectFB.
	
	Cairo is free software and is available to be redistributed and/or
	modified under the terms of either the GNU Lesser General Public
	License (LGPL) version 2.1 or the Mozilla Public License (MPL) version
	1.1.
	
	
	Where to get more information about cairo
	-----------------------------------------
	The primary source of information about cairo is:
	
	        http://cairographics.org/
	
	The latest versions of cairo can always be found at:
	
	        http://cairographics.org/download
	
	Documentation on using cairo and frequently-asked questions:
	
	        http://cairographics.org/documentation
	        http://cairographics.org/FAQ
	
	Mailing lists for contacting cairo users and developers:
	
	        http://cairographics.org/lists
	
	Roadmap and unscheduled things to do, (please feel free to help out):
	
	        http://cairographics.org/roadmap
		http://cairographics.org/todo
	
	
	Changelog
	---------
	Adrian Johnson (3):
	      pdf: don't return uninitialized status
	      pdf-operators: fix bug in line wrapping
	      subsetting: support variable fonts
	
	Andrea Canciani (5):
	      quartz: Restore 10.4-specific font code
	      test: Add a test for characters in the SMP
	      unicode: Extract the UCS4 to UTF-16 conversion to a separate function
	      quartz-font: Correct handling of SMP Unicode characters
	      quartz-font: Fix text-glyph-range
	
	Bryce Harrington (6):
	      Bump version for new development tree, 1.15.5
	      RELEASING: Fix tabbing
	      gl: Fix comment syntax
	      drm: Add/reorder headers as required by check-preprocessor-syntax.sh
	      1.15.6 release
	
	Chris Wilson (1):
	      stroker: Check for scaling overflow in computing half line widths
	
	Debarshi Ray (2):
	      doc: Fix the units used by cairo_surface_create_similar_image
	      doc: Clarify when the device scale is inherited and when it isn't
	
	Enrico Weigelt, metux IT consult (4):
	      drm: fixed missing includes
	      drm: dropped obsolete/unused intel_bo_get_image()
	      drm: use typedefs and defines from drm headers instead of redundant own definitions
	      drm: fixed calls to _cairo_surface_init()
	
	Kouhei Sutou (2):
	      pdf: Remove duplicated item
	      pdf: Fix wrong cairo_pdf_outline_flags_t item prefix
	
	Uli Schlachter (4):
	      xlib: Remove unused variable
	      xlib: Call XSync() before ignoring errors
	      Revert "stroker: Check for scaling overflow in computing half line widths"
	      xcb: Fix error reporting if fallback fails
	
