	A new cairo snapshot 1.15.14 is now available from:
	
		http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.15.14.tar.xz
	
	    which can be verified with:
	
		http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.15.14.tar.xz.sha1
		62ebffbaf4cc81c412f0ad3f87dc20499f85d046  cairo-1.15.14.tar.xz
	
		http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.15.14.tar.xz.sha1.asc
		(signed by Bryce Harrington)
	
	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:
	
		git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo
	
	    will include a signed 1.15.14 tag which points to a commit named:
		d9aaea0c1e1484c632e1a6735c6ecc961c4b032b
	
	    which can be verified with:
		git verify-tag 1.15.14
	
	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
		git checkout -b build 1.15.14
	
	Release 1.15.14    (2018-09-19 Bryce Harrington <bryce@bryceharrington.org>)
	============================================================================
	We're nearly ready to finalize the 1.16.0 release, so this snapshot
	can be considered a beta for 1.16.
	
	The most notable change this release is a performance optimization for
	windows, discussed below.  Other than that, much of the development
	focus was on final polish and stability as we prepare for 1.16.
	
	Some attention went into getting the testsuite passing at least for the
	image backend.  The Cairo testsuite depends on external software like
	Pixman, and changes in the rendering behavior of these dependencies
	change test behavior, leading to false positives.
	
	Results from the Coverity static testing tool were also reviewed.  Most
	of the issues flagged were false positives, but there were several
	legitimate problems found and fixed.
	
	For a complete log of changes, please see
	
	    http://cairographics.org/releases/ChangeLog.cairo-1.15.12
	
	Features and Enhancements
	-------------------------
	* Add more FreeeType font color conversions to support COLR/CPAL
	* Update test reference images against current pixman
	
	API Changes
	-----------
	None
	
	Dependency Changes
	------------------
	None
	
	Performance Optimizations
	-------------------------
	Vasily Galkin introduced a Win32 performance optimization for
	CAIRO_OPERATOR_SOURCE when copying data from a backbuffer to an argb32
	surface corresponding to a Win32 DC.  With this, argb32 drawing should
	perform as fast as typical dibsection-buffered GDI drawing.  See the
	Cairo mailing list for April 2018 for data and discussion of the
	performance improvements.
	
	
	Bug Fixes
	---------
	* Fix crash when rendering Microsoft's Segoe UI Emoji Regular font.
	* Fix build breakage with glesv3 enabled due to non-existant glesv3.pc.
	* Fix memory leaks found by Coverity
	* Fix incorrect null ptr handling found by Coverity
	* Fix test compilation when font-config is disabled
	* Use _cairo_malloc instead of malloc (Bug #101547) (CVE-2017-9814)
	* Fix assertion failure in the freetype backend (Bug #105746)
	
	
	Full changes since 1.15.12:
	===========================
	
	Adrian Johnson (1):
	      Use _cairo_malloc instead of malloc
	
	Alexandre Bique (1):
	      Fix test compilation when font-config is disabled
	
	Behdad Esfahbod (1):
	      [ft] Implement some more color conversion routines
	
	Bryce Harrington (24):
	      Drop stray patch from prior commit
	      gl: Whitespace cleanup
	      win32: Copyedit recent comments
	      test: Use C comment syntax, not C++
	      Bump version for new development tree, 1.15.13
	      script-surface: Check for invalid ids (CID #1159557, 1159558)
	      bo: Check null return from _cairo_malloc_ab() (CID #1159556)
	      snapshot: Don't use extra after it's been freed (CID #220086)
	      bo: Free event_y in case of error to prevent memory leak (CID ##1160682)
	      pdf: Fix potential null ptr deref when creating smask groups (CID #1159559)
	      type1-subset: Fix incorrect null ptr check from find_token() (CID #1160662)
	      polygon-intersection: Clarify ptr checks for right edges (CID #1160730)
	      gl: For glesv3 detection, use glesv2.pc + header check
	      scaled-font: Fix glyph and cluster count checks (CID #983386)
	      Convert 3 headers to UTF8
	      build: Sp. fix
	      doc: Add missing symbols to sections for recently added APIs
	      Fix sp. sheering
	      gstate: Minor grammar copyedit
	      Normalize more test reference images with minor text rendering differences
	      Normalize one more test image with minor gradient differences
	      doc: Drop tmpl support
	      1.15.14 release
	      Bump version for 1.15.15
	
	Federico Mena Quintero (5):
	      cairo-analysis-surface: Quell invalid uninitialized variable warning
	      test/extended-blend.c: Remove obsolete comments about buggy librsvg
	      Normalize extended-blend-mask.{argb32,rgb24}.ref.png
	      Normalize test images with minor gradient differences
	      Normalize test reference images with minor text rendering differences
	
	Uli Schlachter (1):
	      Fix assertion failure in the freetype backend
	
	Vasily Galkin (3):
	      win32: Introduce new flag to mark surfaces that support solid brush drawing
	      win32: CAIRO_WIN32_SURFACE_CAN_RGB_BRUSH and other argb32 flags set+check
	      win32: Allow GDI operations for argb32 surfaces (allowed by surface flags)
	
