---
title: cairo 1.12.8 release available
layout: news
date: 2012-11-04
---

	From: Chris Wilson <chris@chris-wilson.co.uk>
	Date: Sun, 4 Nov 2012 15:40:51 +0000
	To: cairo-announce@cairographics.org

	A new cairo release 1.12.8 is now available from:

		http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.12.8.tar.xz

	    which can be verified with:

		http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.12.8.tar.xz.sha1
		56a10bf3b804367c97734d655c23a9f652d5c297  cairo-1.12.8.tar.xz

		http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.12.8.tar.xz.sha1.asc
		(signed by Chris Wilson)

	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:

		git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo

	    will include a signed 1.12.8 tag which points to a commit named:
		cc162915a55cc67587677352bd9e389f16117853

	    which can be verified with:
		git verify-tag 1.12.8

	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
		git checkout -b build 1.12.8

	Release 1.12.8 (2012-11-24 Chris Wilson <chris@chris-wilson.co.uk>)
	===================================================================
	Another couple of weeks and a few more bugs have been found and fixed,
	it is time to push the next point release. Many thanks to everyone who
	reported their issues and helped us track down the bugs and helped
	testing the fixes.

	Bug fixes
	---------

	  Expand the sanity checking for broken combinations of XSendEvent and
	  ShmCompletionEvent.

	  Notice that "The X.Org Foundation" sometimes also identifies itself
	  as "The Xorg Foundation".

	  Handle various ages of libXext and its Shm headers.

	  Fix the invalid clipping of the source drawable when using SHM
	  transport to upload images.
	  https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=56547

	  Handle all Type1 postscript operators for better font compatibility.
	  https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=56265

	  Fix a couple of memory leaks in Type1 font subsetting
	  https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=56566

	  Tighten the evaluation of the start/stop pen vertices, and catch a few
	  instances where we would use a fan instead of a bevel.
	  https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=56432

	  Fix assumption that geometric clipping always succeeds with the
	  span-compositor.
	  https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=56574

	  Fix call to spline intersection when evaluating whether a stoke is
	  visible.

	  Remember to copy inferior sources when using SHM to readback the
	  surface for use as a source.

	Complete list of changes since 1.12.6
	-------------------------------------

	Adrian Johnson (5):
	      type1-subset: parse all operators
	      type1-subset: restore correct callothersub behavior
	      type1-subset: ensure subroutine numnber is an integer
	      type1-subset: fix memory leak
	      type1-subset: remove unused variable

	Chris Wilson (19):
	      version: Post release bump to 1.12.7
	      xlib/shm: Sanity check that the server handles XSendEvent with ShmCompletion
	      xlib: Check for both X.org and Xorg ServerVendors
	      xlib/shm: Check for XShm headers
	      xlib/shm: Use shmstr.h instead of shmproto.h if available
	      xlib: Apply the image offsets to the destination rather the source
	      pen: First check whether the in/out edges lie within the single pen vertex
	      xlib/shm: Fix bogus assertion without shm available
	      image: Add a couple of tracepoints for spans fallbacks
	      stroke: Precompute the line half-width
	      util/show-polygon: Show the limited range of each edge
	      spans: Do not assume that we manage to perform the clip geometrically
	      xlib: Fixup standalone header compilation for 'make check'
	      gl: Tune the default VBO size to reduce overhead on embedded devices
	      pen: Tighten checking for bevel (start==stop) joins
	      test: Add stroke-clipped
	      stroke: Fix calling '_cairo_spline_intersect' for in-bounds checking of splines
	      xlib/shm: Need IncludeInferiors when creating the source fallback
	      1.12.8 release

	Kevin Tardif (1):
	      type1-subset, cff-subset: Plugged 2 memory leaks
