---
title: cairo 1.12.18 snapshot available
layout: news
date: 2014-11-07
---

	From: Bryce Harrington <bryce@osg.samsung.com>
	To: cairo-announce@cairographics.org
	Date: Fri, 07 Nov 2014 01:04:19 -0800

	A new cairo release 1.12.18 is now available from:

	  http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.12.18.tar.xz

	    which can be verified with:

	    http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.12.18.tar.xz.sha1
	    a76940b58da9c83b8934264617135326c0918f9d  cairo-1.12.18.tar.xz

	    http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.12.18.tar.xz.sha1.asc
	    (signed by Bryce Harrington)

	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:

	  git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo

	    will include a signed 1.12.18 tag which points to a commit named:
	    c5bba093dec4fc7addddb1a16b6a17e3a4c29555

	    which can be verified with:
	    git verify-tag 1.12.18

	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
	    git checkout -b build 1.12.18


	Release 1.12.18 (2014-11-06 Bryce Harrington <bryce@osg.samsung.com>)
	=====================================================================
	By popular demand, here is an update of the 1.12 series.  This provides
	an array of important bug fix patches cherrypicked from the 1.14
	series.  Also included is the distcheck warnings cleanup work.

	Note that glib 2.14 is now required for g_once_init_enter(), etc. in
	cairo-gobject.


	Bug Fixes
	---------

	    Don't embed CMYK JPEG images since SVG viewers don't have support

	    Fix regression in the embedding of mime-data in PDF

	    Fix hardcoding of awk; search $PATH instead

	    Fix stroke-clipped for dashed strokes, etc.

	    Fix rectangle stroke with non-rectilinear pens in PDF

	    Fix imagemask with pattern source on certain PS printers

	    Fix font names in generated PDF when they have white space or
	    delimiter characters.

	    Fix crash in pixman_image_composite32()

	    Fix issue with modification of all-clipped cairo_clip_t, causing a
	    write to read-only memory.

	    Fix segfault in firefox when scrolling certain pages.

	    Fix potential double free.

	    Fix check for image surface for inplace upload.

	    Fix crash in sweep_line_delete on video playback by prefiltering
	    zero-area boxes when converting traps, given a traps tesselator like
	    cairo-xlib.

	    Fix cache_frozen assertions on Win32.

	    Fix image scale when GDI scale  is not identity on windows.

	    Fix build with --enable-pdf=no

	    Fix build for Qt backend

	    Fix typo in _cairo_int128_negate and _cairo_int128_not
	    implementations, which could be a problem on systems without a
	    uint128 type.

	    Use setpagedevice to set page size

	    Add font DSC comments

	    Remove LTO support.

	    Various improvements to code documentation, tons of warnings and
	    distcheck cleanup and fixes, and repairs to a slew of tests.


	Complete list of changes from 1.12.16 to 1.12.18
	------------------------------------------------

	Adrian Johnson (12):
	      svg: Don't embed CMYK Jpeg images
	      pdf: fix embedding of mime data that has been broken since 0a10982f
	      ps: fix embedding of mime data
	      pdf: fix rectangle stroke with non rectilinear pen
	      ps: remove duplicate /Interpolate from image dictionary
	      ps: fix imagemask with pattern source failure on some printers
	      ps: use setpagedevice to set page size
	      ps: cairo_set_page_size does not need to be in eps output
	      ps: add font DSC comments
	      type1: strip space from end of font name
	      win32 printing: fix image scale when GDI scale is not identity
	      type1-subset: don't rename glyphs used by seac operator

	Bryce Harrington (20):
	      image: Fix bad HTML generation in code docs for cairo-format-stride-for-width
	      Fix segfault in firefox when scrolling on certain pages
	      configure.ac: Add a --disable-lto configure option
	      README:  Update required dependencies
	      cairo-wideint:  Fix typo in two cairo_uint128 functions
	      configure.ac: Fix broken build for Qt backend
	      configure.ac: Quell warnings about AM_PROG_AR when using automake 1.12
	      doc: Drop a couple quartz routines which distcheck claims don't exist
	      mesh: Avoid theoretical infinite loops
	      xml: constify source objects for emit routines
	      test: Quell warning for deprecated g_type_init()
	      test: Quell warning for inclusion of old rsvg header files
	      perf: Guarantee path width is non-negative
	      cairo-script: Compare status with CSI enums
	      cairo-script: Error if asked to decompress with missing compression lib
	      test:  Handle error in fgets call in ps-eps test
	      test:  Replace deprecated rsvg_init() in any2ppm test
	      gl: Handle PIXMAN_a8r8g8b8_sRGB format in switch
	      doc: Add missing sections and symbols for public docs
	      Bump release to 1.12.18

	Chris Wilson (4):
	      Post-release version bump
	      clip: Do not modify the special all-clipped cairo_clip_t
	      traps,xcb: Prefilter zero-area boxes when converting traps
	      traps,xcb: Set the box count after filtering

	Koji Egashira (1):
	      image: Add NULL checks for return value of _pixman_image_for_color()

	Marek Kasik (1):
	      font: Generate PDFs with correct font names

	Ravi Nanjundappa (2):
	      test : build fix when --enable-pdf=no
	      src : Fix warn_unused_result warnings from gcc

	Rodrigo Rivas Costa (1):
	      win32 print: fix cache_frozen assertions

	Ryan Lortie (1):
	      cairo-version: fix docs build

	Sylvestre Ledru (1):
	      Remove some potential double free

	Uli Schlachter (8):
	      cairo-gobject: Require at least glib 2.14
	      check-doc-syntax: Don't hardcode path to awk
	      fill_reduces_to_source(): Handle failure of color_to_pixel()
	      clip: Fix handling of special all-clipped cairo_clip_t
	      mask compositor: Set a check_composite method
	      Remove LTO support
	      xcb: Correctly check for image surface for inplace upload
	      Fix warnings from check-doc-syntax.sh

	egag (1):
	      Fixes stroke-clipped, i.c. of a dashed stroke


	What is cairo
	=============
	Cairo is a 2D graphics library with support for multiple output
	devices. Currently supported output targets include the X Window
	System (via both Xlib and XCB), quartz, win32, and image buffers,
	as well as PDF, PostScript, and SVG file output. Experimental backends
	include OpenGL, BeOS, OS/2, and DirectFB.

	Cairo is designed to produce consistent output on all output media
	while taking advantage of display hardware acceleration when available
	(for example, through the X Render Extension).

	The cairo API provides operations similar to the drawing operators of
	PostScript and PDF. Operations in cairo include stroking and filling
	cubic Bézier splines, transforming and compositing translucent images,
	and antialiased text rendering. All drawing operations can be
	transformed by any affine transformation (scale, rotation, shear,
	etc.).

	Cairo has been designed to let you draw anything you want in a modern
	2D graphical user interface.  At the same time, the cairo API has been
	designed to be as fun and easy to learn as possible. If you're not
	having fun while programming with cairo, then we have failed
	somewhere---let us know and we'll try to fix it next time around.

	Cairo is free software and is available to be redistributed and/or
	modified under the terms of either the GNU Lesser General Public
	License (LGPL) version 2.1 or the Mozilla Public License (MPL) version
	1.1.

	Where to get more information about cairo
	=========================================
	The primary source of information about cairo is:

		http://cairographics.org/

	The latest versions of cairo can always be found at:

		http://cairographics.org/download

	Documentation on using cairo and frequently-asked questions:

		http://cairographics.org/documentation
		http://cairographics.org/FAQ

	Mailing lists for contacting cairo users and developers:

		http://cairographics.org/lists

	Roadmap and unscheduled things to do, (please feel free to help out):

		http://cairographics.org/roadmap
		http://cairographics.org/todo

	--
	Bryce Harrington
	Senior Open Source Developer  -  bryce@osg.samsung.com
	Open Source Group             -  Samsung Research America
