---
title: cairo 1.14.10 release available
layout: news
date: 2017-06-15
---

	Subject: cairo release 1.14.10 now available
	
	A new cairo release 1.14.10 is now available from:
	
	  http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.14.10.tar.xz
	
	    which can be verified with:
	
	    http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.14.10.tar.xz.sha1
	    28c59d85d6b790c21b8b59ece73a6a1dda28d69a  cairo-1.14.10.tar.xz
	
	    http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.14.10.tar.xz.sha1.asc
	    (signed by Bryce Harrington)
	
	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:
	
	  git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo
	
	    will include a signed 1.14.10 tag which points to a commit named:
	    05b63e807bb5f86f600283df1c3ca554778d90fa
	
	    which can be verified with:
	    git verify-tag 1.14.10
	
	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
	    git checkout -b build 1.14.10
	
	
	Features and Enhancements
	-------------------------
	None
	
	API Changes
	-----------
	None
	
	Dependency Changes
	------------------
	None
	
	Performance Optimizations
	-------------------------
	None
	
	
	Bug Fixes
	---------
	* Clarify documentation regarding device scale inheritance and the units
	  used in cairo_surface_create_similar_image.  Bug #99094.
	
	* Fix error reporting in the xcb backend if fallback fails.  Instead of
	  returning NULL when the X11 server can't do some operation, return a
	  surface in an error state.
	
	* Call XSync in the xlib backend before setting the error handler to
	  ignore errors for certain requests, to make sure all pending errors
	  are handled first.
	
	* For opentype fonts, always use gid to lookup glyph.
	
	* If glyph 0 used for rendering, remap to different index.
	
	* Set font size to em size when retrieving unhinted metrics.
	
	* Flush ASCII85Decode file after use with Postscript files.
	
	* pdf: Don't fail subsetting if unable to convert utf8 to utf16.
	
	* For truetype, reverse cmap search should end when 0xffff- 0xffff range
	  reached.
	
	* Fix bug in line wrapping with the PDF operators.
	
	* Fix an off by one check in cairo-image-info.c.
	
	
	What is cairo
	-------------
	Cairo is a 2D graphics library with support for multiple output
	devices. Currently supported output targets include the X Window
	System (via both Xlib and XCB), quartz, win32, and image buffers,
	as well as PDF, PostScript, and SVG file output. Experimental backends
	include OpenGL, BeOS, OS/2, and DirectFB.
	
	Cairo is free software and is available to be redistributed and/or
	modified under the terms of either the GNU Lesser General Public
	License (LGPL) version 2.1 or the Mozilla Public License (MPL) version
	1.1.
	
	
	Where to get more information about cairo
	-----------------------------------------
	The primary source of information about cairo is:
	
	        http://cairographics.org/
	
	The latest versions of cairo can always be found at:
	
	        http://cairographics.org/download
	
	Documentation on using cairo and frequently-asked questions:
	
	        http://cairographics.org/documentation
	        http://cairographics.org/FAQ
	
	Mailing lists for contacting cairo users and developers:
	
	        http://cairographics.org/lists
	
	Roadmap and unscheduled things to do, (please feel free to help out):
	
	        http://cairographics.org/roadmap
		http://cairographics.org/todo
	
	
	Changelog
	---------
	Adrian Johnson (8):
	      cff: opentype fonts always use gid to lookup glyph
	      scaled-font-subsets: if glyph 0 used for rendering, remap to different index
	      ft: set font size to em size when retrieving unhinted metrics
	      ps: flush ASCII85Decode file after use
	      pdf: Don't fail subsetting if unable to convert utf8 to utf16
	      truetype: reverse cmap search should end when 0xffff- 0xffff range reached
	      pdf-operators: fix bug in line wrapping
	      Fix off by one check in cairo-image-info.c
	
	Bryce Harrington (4):
	      Start 1.14.9 development
	      RELEASING: Sync doc from trunk
	      Release 1.14.10
	      Start 1.14.11 development
	
	Debarshi Ray (2):
	      doc: Clarify when the device scale is inherited and when it isn't
	      doc: Fix the units used by cairo_surface_create_similar_image
	
	Uli Schlachter (2):
	      xcb: Fix error reporting if fallback fails
	      xlib: Call XSync() before ignoring errors
	
