---
title: cairo 1.5.14 snapshot available
date: 2008-03-20
---

	From: Carl Worth <cworth@cworth.org>
	Date: Thu, 20 Mar 2008 17:08:01 -0700
	To: cairo-announce@cairographics.org
	Cc: gnome-announce-list@gnome.org
	Subject: cairo snapshot 1.5.14 now available

	A new cairo snapshot 1.5.14 is now available from:

	        http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.5.14.tar.gz

	    which can be verified with:

	        http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.5.14.tar.gz.sha1
	        af40870b3ec62bbdeaecdf3ea4cce23919fedc42  cairo-1.5.14.tar.gz

	        http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.5.14.tar.gz.sha1.asc
	        (signed by Carl Worth)

	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:

	        git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo

	    will include a signed 1.5.14 tag which points to a commit named:
	        f4d4d7b3d0bd62af6ffd50ba9cd8df0b9a12be71

	    which can be verified with:
	        git verify-tag 1.5.14

	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
	        git checkout -b build 1.5.14

	This is the seventh snapshot in cairo's unstable 1.5 series. It comes
	3 weeks after the 1.5.12 snapshot. This snapshot includes support for
	arbitrary X server visuals, (including PseudoColor), which was the
	final remaining cairo-specific item on the cairo 1.6 roadmap. It also
	includes a huge number of improvements to the cairo-quartz backend. So
	this is effectively a cairo 1.6 release candidate. We expect very few
	changes from now until 1.6 and only for specific bug fixes. See below
	for more about what's new in cairo 1.5.14.

	We do appreciate any testing and feedback you can provide. In
	particular, if you know of a bug in cairo 1.5.14 that you'd like to
	see fixed before 1.6.0 and that bug isn't exercised by the cairo test
	suite, then please make loud noises on the cairo mailing list so that
	we know about it.

	Have fun with cairo!

	-Carl

	Changes from cairo 1.5.12 to 1.5.14
	===================================

	API Change
	----------
	Rename ATSUI font backend to Quartz font backend. This affects the
	following usage:

		--enable-atsui		-> --enable-quartz-font
		CAIRO_HAS_ATSUI_FONT 	-> CAIRO_HAS_QUARTZ_FONT
		CAIRO_FONT_TYPE_ATSUI	-> CAIRO_FONT_TYPE_QUARTZ

		cairo_atsui_font_face_create_for_atsu_font_id ->
		cairo_quartz_font_font_create_for_atsu_font_id

	This API change is justified by the cairo-quartz backend still be
	marked as "experimental" rather than "supported", (though this is one
	step toward making the change to "supported" before 1.6). Cairo will
	still provide ABI compatibility with the old symbol name, however.

	paginated (all of ps, pdf, svg, and win32-printing)
	---------------------------------------------------
	Optimize by not analyzing an image surface for transparency more than
	once, (previously all images were analyzed twice).

	cairo-ps and cairo-pdf
	----------------------
	Avoiding emitting a matrix into the stroke output when unnecessary,
	(making output size more efficient).

	Reduce rounding error of path shapes by factoring large scale factors
	out of the path matrix, (ensuring that a fixed-number of printed
	digits for path coordinates contains as much information as possible).

	Reduce excess digits for text position coordinates. This makes the
	output file size much smaller without making the result any less
	correct.

	cairo-ps
	--------
	Eliminate bug causing extraneous text repetition on Linux PostScript
	output in some cases.

		See: Mozilla Bug 419917 – Printed page contents are reflected
		inside bordered tables (Linux-only)

		https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=419917

	Optimize output when EXTEND_PAD is used.

	cairo-pdf
	---------
	Fix to not use fill-stroke operator with transparent fill, (else PDF
	output doesn't match the cairo-defined correct result). See:

		https://bugs.launchpad.net/inkscape/+bug/202096

	cairo-svg
	---------
	Fix stroke of path with a non-solid-color source pattern:

		http://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14556

	cairo-quartz
	------------
	Fix text rendering with gradient or image source pattern.

	Handling antialiasing correctly for cairo_stroke(), cairo_clip(), and
	cairo_show_text()/cairo_show_glyphs().

	Correctly handle gradients with non-identity transformations:

		Fixes http://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14248

	Add native implementation of REPEAT and REFLECT extend modes for
	gradients.

	Fix implementation for the "unbounded" operators, (CAIRO_OPERATOR_OUT,
	_IN, _DEST_IN, and _DEST_ATOP).

	Correctly handle endiannees in multi-architecture compiles on Mac OS
	X.

	Avoid behavior which would cause Core Graphics to print warnings to
	the console in some cases.

	cairo-win32
	-----------
	Fix handling of miter limit.

	cairo-win32-printing
	--------------------
	Fix to not use a 1bpp temporary surface in some cases while printing,
	(so grayscale data is preserved rather than just becoming black and
	white).

	cairo-xlib
	----------
	Add support for rendering to arbitrary TrueColor X server
	visuals. This fixes at least the following bugs:

		cairo doesn't support 8-bit truecolor visuals
		https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=7735

		cairo doesn't support 655 xlib format
		https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=9719

	Add support for rendering to 8-bit PseudoColor X server visuals. This
	fixes the following bug:

		Cairo doesn't support 8-bit pseudocolor visuals
		https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=4945

	Unresolved issues (must be fixed before cairo 1.6)
	--------------------------------------------------
	XXX: Need to decide if cairo_image_surface_create_for_data should be
	documented and tested as supporting an image with a negative
	stride. Also need to decide the correct return value for
	cairo_format_stride_for_width in case of any error.
