---
title: cairo 1.4.14 release available
date: 2008-01-14
---

	From: Carl Worth <cworth@cworth.org>
	Date: Mon, 14 Jan 2008 16:55:00 -0800
	To: cairo-announce@cairographics.org
	Cc: gnome-announce-list@gnome.org
	Subject: cairo release 1.4.14 now available
	
	A new cairo release 1.4.14 is now available from:
	
	        http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.4.14.tar.gz
	
	    which can be verified with:
	
	        http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.4.14.tar.gz.sha1
	        63310243ba8af949060b06c01fc28ee5471ed5a4  cairo-1.4.14.tar.gz
	
	        http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.4.14.tar.gz.sha1.asc
	        (signed by Carl Worth)
	
	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:
	
	        git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo
	
	    will include a signed 1.4.14 tag which points to a commit named:
	        bdd93f5e8eb5726315cca396240afe7a084348ae
	
	    which can be verified with:
	        git verify-tag 1.4.14
	
	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
	        git checkout -b build 1.4.14
	
	This is the seventh update in cairo's stable 1.4 series. It comes
	little more than a month after the 1.4.12 release. Compared to 1.4.12,
	this release adds only a handful of bug fixes all of which were
	cherry-picked from the 1.5 series. One of these fixes a miter-join
	regression introduced during the 1.4.12 series. See below for details.
	
	It would not be surprising if this were the last release in the 1.4
	series. We're working hard on getting 1.6 out soon, and unless some
	new, big bugs are discovered in 1.4.14, this will be the end of a good
	run. We do recommend that anybody running any 1.4.x release, (and
	particularly 1.4.12), consider upgrading to 1.4.14.
	
	Have fun with cairo!
	
	-Carl
	
	Bugs fixed between cairo 1.4.12 and 1.4.14
	==========================================
	Fix a regression (which first appeared in 1.4.12) where stroking under
	a large scale would sometimes incorrectly replace a miter join with a
	bevel join. (Thanks to Keith Packard.)
	
	Fix handling of fonts that contain a mixture of outline and bitmapped
	glyphs. There was a change in this handling in 1.4.12 that improved
	some cases and also regressed other cases. Now, all cases should be
	handled quite well.
	
	Fix xlib backend to not consider recent X server release as having a
	buggy repeat implementation in the Render extension. (Thanks to
	Bernardo Innocenti.)
	
	Fix several bugs in cairo's PostScript output. These include making
	the PostScript output more compatible with recent versions of
	ghostscript that are more strict about Type 3 fonts, for
	example. (Many thanks to Adrian Johnson.)

