---
title: cairo 1.7.6 snapshot available
date: 2008-09-18
---

	From: Carl Worth <cworth@cworth.org>
	Date: Thu, 18 Sep 2008 15:26:44 -0700
	To: cairo-announce@cairographics.org
	Cc: gnome-announce-list@gnome.org
	Subject: cairo snapshot 1.7.6 now available

	A new cairo snapshot 1.7.6 is now available from:

	        http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.7.6.tar.gz

	    which can be verified with:

	        http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.7.6.tar.gz.sha1
	        07be7452ddd24df4841c13bc73f76c2543f1d849  cairo-1.7.6.tar.gz

	        http://cairographics.org/snapshots/cairo-1.7.6.tar.gz.sha1.asc
	        (signed by Carl Worth)

	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:

	        git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo

	    will include a signed 1.7.6 tag which points to a commit named:
	        005dd8499bca9521ab934a56c68d2b85042359b7

	    which can be verified with:
	        git verify-tag 1.7.6

	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
	        git checkout -b build 1.7.6

	The cairo community is happy to announce the 1.7.6 snapshot of the
	cairo graphics library. This is a "release candidate" for the upcoming
	1.8.0 release, so we will greatly appreciate any reports of problems
	in this release, and no major changes are currently planned before
	1.8.

	See below for details, and have fun!

	-Carl

	The cairo community is happy to announce the 1.7.6 snapshot of the
	cairo graphics library. This is a "release candidate" for the upcoming
	1.8.0 release, so we will greatly appreciate any reports of problems
	in this release, and no major changes are currently planned before
	1.8.

	Notable changes in 1.7.6
	------------------------
	The largest number of changes since 1.7.4 did not change the
	implementation of cairo itself, but instead revamped cairo's build
	system. The primary goal of the revamp is to make the build system
	less fragile, (particularly for non-Linux platforms). For example, now
	people building on win32 will no longer need to maintain a
	platform-specific list of files to be built. Also, the .so file will
	now be installed with a different naming scheme, (for example, 1.7.6
	will install with a .10706 suffix). Much thanks, Behdad!

	And, as usual, Chris Wilson has made another large round of robustness
	improvements, (eliminating dead code, fixing propagation of error
	status values, test suite improvements, etc. etc.). Thanks as always,
	Chris!

	API changes since 1.7.4
	-----------------------
	There have been a few changes of API that was new during the 1.7
	series:

	* Remove cairo_font_options_set_lcd_filter
	   and cairo_font_options_get_lcd_filter

	  Motivation: At the Cairo Summit, this API was determined to be too
		specific to the freetype font backend to be in the general
		API. A similar API with a cairo_ft prefix might be introduced
		in the future. Note that cairo will still respect the
		corresponding fontconfig settings for these options.

	* Replace cairo_has_show_glyphs
	     with cairo_surface_has_show_glyphs

	  Motivation: This really is a surface-specific interface, and the
		convenience function on the cairo_t is not obviously
		necessary. An application can easily call:

		cairo_surface_has_show_glyphs (cairo_get_target (cr));

		as needed.

	* Add cairo_text_cluster_flags_t
	   to cairo_show_text_glyphs
	      cairo_scaled_font_text_to_glyphs
	      cairo_user_scaled_font_text_to_glyphs_func_t

	  Motivation: This flag, (and specifically the
		CAIRO_TEXT_CLUSTER_FLAG_BACKWARD value), replaces the
		cairo_bool_t backward argument in each of the above
		interfaces. This leads to more readable user code, and also
		allows future extensibility.

	As always, there are no changes to any API from any major cairo
	release, (1.0.x, 1.2.x, 1.4.x, 1.6.x). Cairo maintains the same
	compatibility promise it always has.

	Bug fixes since 1.7.4
	---------------------
	xlib: Faster bookkeeping (Karl Tomlinson)
		https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=453199#c5

	PS: Fix gradients with non-constant alpha (Chris Wilson)

	Fix deadlock in user-font code (Richard Hughes and Behdad Esfahbod)
		http://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=16819

	Several other minor fixes.

