---
title: cairo 1.10.0 release available
layout: news
date: 2010-09-06
---

	From: Chris Wilson <chris@chris-wilson.co.uk>
	Date: Mon, 06 Sep 2010 18:56:33 +0100
	To: cairo-announce@cairographics.org
	Cc: gnome-announce-list@gnome.org, pr@lwn.net
	Subject: cairo release 1.10.0 now available

	A new cairo release 1.10.0 is now available from:

		http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.10.0.tar.gz

	    which can be verified with:

		http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.10.0.tar.gz.sha1
		efe7e47408d5188690228ccadc8523652f6bf702  cairo-1.10.0.tar.gz

		http://cairographics.org/releases/cairo-1.10.0.tar.gz.sha1.asc
		(signed by Chris Wilson)

	  Additionally, a git clone of the source tree:

		git clone git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo

	    will include a signed 1.10.0 tag which points to a commit named:
		cb0bc64c16b3a38cbf0c622830c18ac9ea6e2ffe

	    which can be verified with:
		git verify-tag 1.10.0

	    and can be checked out with a command such as:
		git checkout -b build 1.10.0

	The cairo community is astounded (and flabbergast) to finally announce
	the 1.10.0 release of the cairo graphics library. This is a major update
	to cairo, with new features and enhanced functionality which maintains
	compatibility for applications written using any previous major cairo
	release, (1.8, 1.6, 1.4, 1.2, or 1.0). We recommend that anybody using
	a previous version of cairo upgrade to cairo 1.10.0.

	One of the more interesting departures for cairo for this release is the
	inclusion of a tracing utility, cairo-trace. cairo-trace generates a
	human-readable, replayable, compact representation of the sequences of
	drawing commands made by an application. This can be used to inspecting
	applications to understand issues and as a means for profiling
	real-world usage of cairo.

	The traces generated by cairo-trace have been collected in

	  git://git.cairographics.org/git/cairo-traces

	and have driven the performance tuning of cairo over the last couple of
	years. In particular, the image backend is much faster with a new
	polygon rasterisation and a complete overhaul of the tessellator. Not
	only is this faster, but also eliminates visual artifacts from
	self-intersecting strokes. Not only has cairo-trace been driving
	performance improvements within cairo, but as a repeatable means of
	driving complex graphics it has been used to tune OpenGL, DDX, and
	pixman.

	Cairo's API has been extended to better support printing, notably
	through the ability to include a single compressed representation of an
	image for patterns used throughout a document, leading to dramatic file
	size reductions. Also the meta-surface used to record the vector
	commands compromising a drawing sequence is now exposed as a
	CAIRO_SURFACE_TYPE_RECORDING, along with a new surface that is a child of a
	larger surface, CAIRO_SURFACE_TYPE_SUBSURFACE. One typical usage of a
	subsurface would be as a source glyph in a texture atlas, or as a
	restricted subwindow within a canvas.

	Cairo's API has also resurrected the RGB16 format from the past as
	the prevalence of 16-bit framebuffers has not diminished and is a
	fore-taste of the extended format support we anticipate in the future.
	Increasing cairo's utility, we introduce the cairo_region_t for handling
	sets of pixel aligned rectangles commonly used in graphics applications.
	This is a merger of the GdkRegion and the pixman_region_t, hopefully
	providing the utility of the former with the speed of the latter.

	Furthermore cairo has been reworked to interoperate more closely with
	various acceleration architectures, gaining the ability to share
	those hardware resources through the new cairo_device_t. For instance,
	with the new OpenGL backend that supersedes the Glitz backend, hardware
	and rendering operations can be shared between a classic OpenGL
	application mixing libVA for the hardware assisted video decode with
	cairo for high quality overlays all within the same OpenGL canvas.

	Many thanks for the hard work of Adrian Johnson, Andrea Canciani, Behdad
	Esfahbod, Benjamin Otte, Carl Worth, Carlos Garcia Campos, Chris Wilson,
	Eric Anholt, Jeff Muizelaar, Karl Tomlinson, M Joonas Pihlaja, Søren
	Sandmann Pedersen and many others that have contributed over the last
	couple of years to cairo. Thank you all!
